---
layout: post
title:  "Condor Array Telescope"
date:   2021-06-01
excerpt: "An array of six refracting telescopes to image low surface brightness objects."
project: true
tag:
- condor 
- telescope
- about
- project
comments: false
---

# Involvement: November 2019 - June 2021
### [Official Website](https://condorarraytelescope.org)

## Introduction

The Condor Array Telescope is an array of six refracting telescopes built for the purpose of imaging low surface brightness objects in the Universe. In many cases, reflecting telescopes are much more useful in terms of practicality and viewing potential. They allow for very large apertures with no cost to the size of the telescope, due to the addition of various mirrors inside of the telescope. However, these mirrors interior to the telescope allow for more refraction and therefore intrinsic noise in the images taken. The mirrors inside of the telescope will allow for additional refraction, meaning less of a focus on the image. In most cases, there is enough light coming from the source one is looking at to consider this effect negligible. However, as the photons received from an object become scarce, this effect becomes more important and introducea a large amount of uncertainty. Therefore, to measure low surface brightness objects, one needs to use refracting telescopes to limit the extra scattering of light introduced in reflecting telescopes.

However, these refracting telescopes are limited by the size of the focusing lens. If the lens is too large, the telescope cannot support it. Therefore, in order to have a large effective focus and diameter, one can use an array of refracting telescopes. This is is the theory behind the creation of the Condor Array Telescope. Though there are others that have created such telescope arrays (see [Abraham & van Dokkum 2014](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2014PASP..126...55A/abstract)), the Condor Array Telescope utilizes off-the-shelf CMOS cameras, as opposed to the often-used CCD cameras. CMOS cameras have an advantage over CCD cameras not only in the way they take images, but also at the rate they do so, and the level of noise they can reach. CMOS cameras have the ability of taking images at 1 60 second cadence, almost unheard of in astronomy due to the read-time of CCD cameras. CMOS cameras have very efficient read-times, allowing for very rapid cadences. This allows for the Condor Array Telescope to take exposures of low surface brightness objects at a very rapid cadence, which has only recently been able to be done. More details of the status of the telescope, instrumentation involved, and research goals can be found at the [official website](https://condorarraytelescope.org), headed by Professor Kenneth Lanzetta at Stony Brook University.


## Modeling the PSF
